I am a curious and enthusiastic person. I have great enthusiasm for STEM activities. In secondary school, I studied physics, chemistry and information and communication technology as my electives. I am keen on problem-solving too. Once, I joined a competition related to STEM, called "Talk in 'Sound, Music and Science'". This competition made me a more creative person, and I was able to use my problem-solving skills to make the final product. I believe my enthusiasm for science and technology can make me contribute to this field.

Other than science and technology, I also develop interests in joining uniform groups. I learned a lot from joining Scout activities. Scouting allows me to learn and think out of the box. For example, I learned stargazing skills, first-aid skills, camping skills, and soft skills when staying with others. Once, I joined a tour to Taiwan held by Scout, and I learned about the people's lives there and Taiwanese culture. I met new friends too. This trip broadened my horizon and my knowledge of the globe.

I have trained myself to be a bold person. During Form 1 to Form 6, I joined the Hong Kong Speech Festival every year. Speaking on stage was never easy. Every year, I tried my best to make a good performance and impress the adjudicator. I used to be a timid person but after years of training, I finally managed to speak on stage naturally.

I am also a careful and responsible person. I have been committee members of various clubs, including Scout, Civil Education Society, Chess and Board Game Club, and Science Society. I am able to organize activities for clubs and societies. I proofread every report carefully to check if there are any mistakes. I can manage to hand in all those clubs' annual reports to the school on time.

Steve Jobs once said, "The only way to do great work is to love what you do." I develop a great passion for science and technology. I love to find out the working principles of things and think of a better solution. Only in science and technology, I can devote myself, strike for success and create my own work. I look forward to learning at university and exploring more new knowledge.