I am interested in learning the principle of things, such as theories of natural phenomena and how machines work. These are things we see every day in daily life but never truly understand how they work. My curiosity makes me an active learner and a challenger. When I find out a new phenomenon or a new science theory, I will spend time to look into it. I was curious about things around me since I was a child. Growing up, I learn about science that can explain how things work. It is the reason why I am keen on studying science.

I am active in learning things that I am interested in. I spend time on reading science news and articles about physics. They are not only about the experiments and formulae which I have learned in school, but new and interesting facts about science. Also, I often watch inspiring videos in the Internet in my free time. Some people may think surfing the Internet is a waste of time. However, I think it is actually a good way of learning. I can learn about the newest technology developments in the Internet which are not yet updated in textbooks.

I gained valuable experience and knowledge from activities held by science society in school. I remember using solutions and glass to make a delicate artwork. I learned that acid can dissolve glass and it can be applied in art. This experience made me enthusiastic about chemistry. When I get more curious and enthusiastic about something, I become more self-motivated.

Learning about theories does not only satisfy my curiosity, but also helps me distinguish between truth and rumour. Science subjects inspire me to think critically and I can apply science theories in current issues. For example, there is controversy about the use of tear gas. As a chemistry student, I studied the composition of tear gas and found out that it contains some major elements of dioxins, which harm people's health.

I hope that I can develop new products with my passion of science to improve people's quality of life in the future. Therefore, I look forward to furthering my study in the science and engineering field to realize my dream.