Life has been so fruitful in my senior secondary school days. I enrolled in different school activities. With the knowledge and experience I gained from those activities, I am now more enthusiastic about serving people in society. I have also got a clearer understanding of my career orientation. That is the reason why I am passionate about studying medical subjects in tertiary education.

Being a team leader of Scout for 2 years, I have built up leadership skills, and become more mature and responsible. Through working with my teammates, I have learnt more about division of labor when doing preparatory work for different events. By giving precise and accurate commands, my teammates could understand the goal and work in a more efficient way. As a leader, I was responsible for allocation of work and building up team spirit. These soft skills are important because communication skill is needed for collaborations with other physicians specializing in other medical fields.

I joined a study tour to Hastings, the United Kingdom in Form 2. It was mind-opening. Interacting with students from all over the world enabled me to know more about and be more receptive to different people. Also, staying in a different environment made me more independent and decisive. I have started to think more about global issues since the tour.

I also participated in the 'STEM Symposium' organized by the University of Hong Kong for two years. The event provided a valuable opportunity to develop my communication skills. Through working with my teammates from different parts of the world, I learnt how to work with foreigners and ways to overcome language barriers. This experience strengthened my self-confidence and critical thinking. The event also allowed me to apply the textbook knowledge in a practical sense.

I am patient and caring. I get a strong sense of satisfaction from helping others. I find the experiences invaluable as I gain a lot of knowledge and values. I participated in many kinds of voluntary work such as Student Mentorship Scheme, services in the Standard Chartered Hong Kong Marathon 2019. Through coming into contact with people of different backgrounds, my life is enriched. No wonder people say, "It is more blessed to give than to receive."

I learned a lot in my secondary school life. It helped me equip myself and undergo the whole-person development. I believe that college education can surely help me improve myself and develop a profession. As the Scout's motto goes, "Be prepared." I believe I am well-prepared to confront complications and obstacles ahead. I look forward to a new journey.